>> Steve Kinney: Just to reiterate, one of
the questions that we received as we were
transitioning was we are skipping a haul.
That is absolutely correct.
We have the ground as
the very first port but
our first GPIO port is the third port,
right?
So we don't want to plug
it into that second one.
We wanna skip one to the first and
the third ports.
>> Steve Kinney: So we're gonna move on
from direct Tessel code to make LEDs blink
to actually writing some Johnny-Five
code over in this one blinking LED file.
So with Johnny-Five, it is an npm library.
If you have not run npm install in this
directory, take a moment and do so.
You can run that and then we'll write
the code as that's installing, and
we should be good to go.
So I'll just give you one second for that.
Cool.
So that's installing,
let's write some code together.
The first thing we're gonna do is, we're
gonna require the Johnny-Five library,
which is, we'll just call it five because
writing Johnny-Five repeatedly is not fun.
>> Steve Kinney: And
we'll require johnny-five.
The other thing we need to do is,
we're actually gonna pull in a slightly
different version of the Tessel library.
As I said before, the Johnny-Five is
an abstraction over a number of boards but
it's not a psychic, you do need to tell
it what board you'd like to use it with.
So we'll pull in
the Johnny-Five library and
we will pull in the this
Tessel-io library.
And then, the next thing to
do is to bring them together.
So we'll say,
const board = new five.Board,
and that the io will be
going through a new Tessel.
This is going to be at the top
of effectively every single
file that we write today.
Later on,
I have included it in the files for
you, but this is effectively,
we are pulling in Johnny-Five and
we were telling it about
the board that we are using.
That semicolon is not gonna work.
Cool.
So this will pull in Johnny-Five,
tell it they work on a Tessel,
get it all wired up and ready to go.
So as you saw before, the board takes
a little bit of time to start up, and
so it fires an event, and
it fires an event when it's ready to go.
That event is conveniently named Ready.
So we'll say board.on('ready' and again,
this will be kind of something that we use
in every single example that we do today.
And then,
we'll give it a function of what we want
to do when the board itself is ready.
So what we'll say is const led.
>> Steve Kinney: Say, new five.Led and
we plugged it into the a0 port.
If you like capital letters,
you are welcome to capitalize that a,
it will work.
It's not case sensitive.
So this is saying like hey,
I have an LED plugged into the a0 port.
And Johnny-Five is very cool.
It's not gonna do anything just yet.
But we do have now a JavaScript
object that we can use and control.
And the next line of code is led.blink.
>> Steve Kinney: Right?
And the .blink takes an argument,
it takes a series of arguments.
I think, it all takes a callback and
something along those lines.
But .blink basically takes some
number of milliseconds, right?
That number of milliseconds is,
as you could probably guess,
how often it should turn on and
off, how often it should blink.
Does anyone have a favorite
number that they wanna go with?
>> Speaker 2: 47.
>> Steve Kinney: 47, 47 milliseconds
is going to, it'll work but
it will be slightly problematic.
How do you feel about 470 seconds?
Sweet.
I'll even make it better for you.
I do 47 times 10, cuz it's JavaScript so
I can do stuff like that.
Technically, I could do true
plus true times 200 as well.
That would work.
Cool.
So I'll say,
const led = new five.Led('a0') port.
And then, we'll say,
blink every 470 milliseconds.
So with this done,
we can go ahead and run t2 run and
01 and hit tab, and
we'll get this blinking LED.js.
That's gonna go and load on toward Tessel.
And with that, we have a blinking
LED that is turning on and
off every 470 milliseconds, on and off.
So the blinking LED is
effectively like the hello world
of working with hardware, right?
First, we made the LEDs
on the device blink, and
then we just took some LED that you could,
rest in peace RadioShack,
picked up from RadioShack, plugged it in
and we are controlling it with JavaScript.
I understand that a blinking
LED is very simple, but
it fills my JavaScript heart with joy,
my cold, black JavaScript heart with joy.